README.md, before:

# WP Development<a name="wp-development"></a>

This is a setup for WordPress development using Git repositories for plugins and themes.

______________________________________________________________________

<!-- mdformat-toc start --slug=github --maxlevel=6 --minlevel=2 -->

- [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [IDE](#ide)
    - [PhpStorm](#phpstorm)
  - [Software](#software)
- [Folder Structure](#folder-structure)
  - [Soft Links](#soft-links)
- [Apache Configuration](#apache-configuration)
- [Composer](#composer)
- [WP-CLI](#wp-cli)
- [Makefile](#makefile)
  - [Clear Transient Caches](#clear-transient-caches)
  - [Install pre-commit Hook](#install-pre-commit-hook)
  - [Run pre-commit Checks](#run-pre-commit-checks)
  - [Update pre-commit Configuration](#update-pre-commit-configuration)
  - [Install WP-CLI](#install-wp-cli)
  - [Update WP-CLI](#update-wp-cli)

<!-- mdformat-toc end -->

______________________________________________________________________

## Requirements<a name="requirements"></a>

### IDE<a name="ide"></a>

#### PhpStorm<a name="phpstorm"></a>

This setup is optimized for JetBrains [PhpStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/phpstorm/).
If you use another IDE, you might have to adjust the setup a bit.

### Software<a name="software"></a>

This setup requires the following software installed on your machine:

- Apache2
- Git
- MariaDB 10.11 or newer
- PHP 8.2 or newer

## Folder Structure<a name="folder-structure"></a>

This setup expects the following folder structure:

```text
~/Development/
│-- WordPress/
│   │-- Repositories/ # «-- This is where the plugin and theme Git repositories are located
│   │   │-- wp-content/
│   │   │   │-- plugins/ # «-- This is where the plugins are located
│   │   │   │-- themes/ # «-- This is where the themes are located
│   │-- WP-Development/ # «-- This git repository and the project root folder
│   │   │-- wp-content/ # «-- This is a soft link to the `wp-content` folder in the Repositories folder
│   │-- WP-Sources/ # «-- This is where the WordPress sources are located and where we will run our WordPress instance (Apache vhost configuration points to this folder)
│   │   │-- …
│   │   │-- wp-content/
│   │   │   │-- plugins/ # «-- This is a soft link to the `plugins` folder in the Repositories folder
│   │   │   │-- themes/ # «-- This is a soft link to the `themes` folder in the Repositories folder
│   │   │-- …
```

### Soft Links<a name="soft-links"></a>

Now we have to create a couple of soft links to make this work.

First, we need to link the `plugins` and `themes` from the repositories to the
WordPress sources.

```shell
# First move the plugins and themes folders to the repositories
mv ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources/wp-content/plugins/ ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/
mv ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources/wp-content/themes/ ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/

# Now create the soft links
ln -s ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/plugins/ ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources/wp-content/plugins
ln -s ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/themes/ ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources/wp-content/themes
```

Then we need to link the `wp-content` folder from the repositories to
the `WP-Development` folder.

```shell
ln -s ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/ ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Development/wp-content
```

## Apache Configuration<a name="apache-configuration"></a>

The Apache configuration for the WordPress instance should look like this:

```apache
<VirtualHost *:80>
    ServerName wp-development.local
    DocumentRoot "/home/username/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources"

    SetEnv APPLICATION_ENV "development"

    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/wp-development-error.log
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/wp-development-access.log combined

    <Directory "/home/username/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources">
        Options FollowSymLinks
        DirectoryIndex index.php
        AllowOverride All
        Require all granted
    </Directory>
</VirtualHost>
```

Remember to add the domain to your `/etc/hosts` file.

```text
127.0.0.1    wp-development.local
```

Now restart Apache.

```shell
sudo systemctl restart apache2.service
```

## Composer<a name="composer"></a>

Composer might be needed for some plugins or themes.
Not all distributions come with Composer pre-installed,
so you might have to install it yourself.

To install Composer, run the following commands from the `Development/WordPress` folder.

```shell
make install-composer
```

This will download the Composer phar file and make it executable and create a
symlink to the `/usr/local/bin` folder as `composer`.

## WP-CLI<a name="wp-cli"></a>

WP-CLI is a command-line interface for WordPress. It allows you to do many tasks
without using the WordPress admin interface.

To install WP-CLI, run the following commands from the `Development/WordPress` folder.

```shell
make install-wp-cli
```

This will download the WP-CLI phar file and make it executable and create a
symlink to the `/usr/local/bin` folder as `wp-cli`.

## Makefile<a name="makefile"></a>

The Makefile contains a couple of useful commands.

All commands are run from the `WP-Development` folder.

### Clear Transient Caches<a name="clear-transient-caches"></a>

This will clear WordPress transient caches, which can be useful when developing.

```shell
make clear-transients
```

### Install pre-commit Hook<a name="install-pre-commit-hook"></a>

This will install the pre-commit hook for the project.

```shell
make pre-commit-install
```

### Run pre-commit Checks<a name="run-pre-commit-checks"></a>

This will run the pre-commit checks.

```shell
make pre-commit-checks
```

### Update pre-commit Configuration<a name="update-pre-commit-configuration"></a>

This will update the pre-commit configuration.

```shell
make update-pre-commit
```

### Install WP-CLI<a name="install-wp-cli"></a>

This will install WP-CLI and make it available as a global command under `/usr/local/bin/wp-cli`.

```shell
make install-wp-cli
```

### Update WP-CLI<a name="update-wp-cli"></a>

This will update WP-CLI to the latest version.

```shell
make update-wp-cli
```

Commit message:

[ADD] Make targets for installing, uninstalling and updating PHP Codesniffer

README.md, after:

# WP Development<a name="wp-development"></a>

This is a setup for WordPress development using Git repositories for plugins and themes.

______________________________________________________________________

<!-- mdformat-toc start --slug=github --maxlevel=6 --minlevel=2 -->

- [Requirements](#requirements)
  - [IDE](#ide)
    - [PhpStorm](#phpstorm)
  - [Software](#software)
- [Folder Structure](#folder-structure)
  - [Soft Links](#soft-links)
- [Apache Configuration](#apache-configuration)
- [Composer](#composer)
- [PHP Code Sniffer](#php-code-sniffer)
- [WP-CLI](#wp-cli)
- [Makefile](#makefile)
  - [Clear Transient Caches](#clear-transient-caches)
  - [Install pre-commit Hook](#install-pre-commit-hook)
  - [Run pre-commit Checks](#run-pre-commit-checks)
  - [Update pre-commit Configuration](#update-pre-commit-configuration)
  - [Install WP-CLI](#install-wp-cli)
  - [Update WP-CLI](#update-wp-cli)

<!-- mdformat-toc end -->

______________________________________________________________________

## Requirements<a name="requirements"></a>

### IDE<a name="ide"></a>

#### PhpStorm<a name="phpstorm"></a>

This setup is optimized for JetBrains [PhpStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/phpstorm/).
If you use another IDE, you might have to adjust the setup a bit.

### Software<a name="software"></a>

This setup requires the following software installed on your machine:

- Apache2
- Composer
- Git
- MariaDB 10.11 or newer
- PHP 8.2 or newer
- PHP Code Sniffer
- WP-CLI

## Folder Structure<a name="folder-structure"></a>

This setup expects the following folder structure:

```text
~/Development/
│-- WordPress/
│   │-- Repositories/ # «-- This is where the plugin and theme Git repositories are located
│   │   │-- wp-content/
│   │   │   │-- plugins/ # «-- This is where the plugins are located
│   │   │   │-- themes/ # «-- This is where the themes are located
│   │-- WP-Development/ # «-- This git repository and the project root folder
│   │   │-- wp-content/ # «-- This is a soft link to the `wp-content` folder in the Repositories folder
│   │-- WP-Sources/ # «-- This is where the WordPress sources are located and where we will run our WordPress instance (Apache vhost configuration points to this folder)
│   │   │-- …
│   │   │-- wp-content/
│   │   │   │-- plugins/ # «-- This is a soft link to the `plugins` folder in the Repositories folder
│   │   │   │-- themes/ # «-- This is a soft link to the `themes` folder in the Repositories folder
│   │   │-- …
```

### Soft Links<a name="soft-links"></a>

Now we have to create a couple of soft links to make this work.

First, we need to link the `plugins` and `themes` from the repositories to the
WordPress sources.

```shell
# First move the plugins and themes folders to the repositories
mv ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources/wp-content/plugins/ ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/
mv ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources/wp-content/themes/ ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/

# Now create the soft links
ln -s ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/plugins/ ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources/wp-content/plugins
ln -s ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/themes/ ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources/wp-content/themes
```

Then we need to link the `wp-content` folder from the repositories to
the `WP-Development` folder.

```shell
ln -s ~/Development/WordPress/Repositories/wp-content/ ~/Development/WordPress/WP-Development/wp-content
```

## Apache Configuration<a name="apache-configuration"></a>

The Apache configuration for the WordPress instance should look like this:

```apache
<VirtualHost *:80>
    ServerName wp-development.local
    DocumentRoot "/home/username/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources"

    SetEnv APPLICATION_ENV "development"

    ErrorLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/wp-development-error.log
    CustomLog ${APACHE_LOG_DIR}/wp-development-access.log combined

    <Directory "/home/username/Development/WordPress/WP-Sources">
        Options FollowSymLinks
        DirectoryIndex index.php
        AllowOverride All
        Require all granted
    </Directory>
</VirtualHost>
```

Remember to add the domain to your `/etc/hosts` file.

```text
127.0.0.1    wp-development.local
```

Now restart Apache.

```shell
sudo systemctl restart apache2.service
```

## Composer<a name="composer"></a>

Composer might be needed for some plugins or themes.
Not all distributions come with Composer pre-installed,
so you might have to install it yourself.

To install Composer, run the following commands from the `Development/WordPress` folder.

```shell
make install-composer
```

This will download the Composer phar file and make it executable and create a
symlink to the `/usr/local/bin` folder as `composer`.

## PHP Code Sniffer<a name="php-code-sniffer"></a>

PHP Code Sniffer is a tool to help you write clean code. It checks your code against a set of coding standards.

To install PHP Code Sniffer, run the following commands from the `Development/WordPress` folder.

```shell
make install-phpcs
```

This will install PHP Code Sniffer globally and make it available as a global command under `/usr/local/bin/phpcs`.

## WP-CLI<a name="wp-cli"></a>

WP-CLI is a command-line interface for WordPress. It allows you to do many tasks
without using the WordPress admin interface.

To install WP-CLI, run the following commands from the `Development/WordPress` folder.

```shell
make install-wp-cli
```

This will download the WP-CLI phar file and make it executable and create a
symlink to the `/usr/local/bin` folder as `wp-cli`.

## Makefile<a name="makefile"></a>

The Makefile contains a couple of useful commands.

All commands are run from the `WP-Development` folder.

### Clear Transient Caches<a name="clear-transient-caches"></a>

This will clear WordPress transient caches, which can be useful when developing.

```shell
make clear-transients
```

### Install pre-commit Hook<a name="install-pre-commit-hook"></a>

This will install the pre-commit hook for the project.

```shell
make pre-commit-install
```

### Run pre-commit Checks<a name="run-pre-commit-checks"></a>

This will run the pre-commit checks.

```shell
make pre-commit-checks
```

### Update pre-commit Configuration<a name="update-pre-commit-configuration"></a>

This will update the pre-commit configuration.

```shell
make update-pre-commit
```

### Install WP-CLI<a name="install-wp-cli"></a>

This will install WP-CLI and make it available as a global command under `/usr/local/bin/wp-cli`.

```shell
make install-wp-cli
```

### Update WP-CLI<a name="update-wp-cli"></a>

This will update WP-CLI to the latest version.

```shell
make update-wp-cli
```
